in this balers Gate 3 video we're going
to talk about the most underrated things
that are deceptively better than you
might think with a ton more
functionality and applications that you
might suspect or just way stronger than
you might estimate at first glance
coming at number one we have backpack
now the backpack might seem like it's
just an item to store and organize items
but you can also throw your backpack
which deals light damage but more
important if you throw it far enough it
breaks open and drops everything that
was inside where you threw it now when
you throw a backpack filled with
explosive items like alchemist's fire
smoke powder bombs costic bulbs and
spiked bulbs and so on you can create a
massive bomb that you can set off with
an arrow of fire or other flame Source
now this backpack bomb might just be the
single highest amount of damage you can
do in a single turn in balers Gate 3 I
highly recommend you give that a try
coming in at number two we have light
now this is actually kind of interesting
you can use the light spec on an item to
make it Glow and emit light and then you
can then throw that item into a dark
place to create a light source now this
can be done on low value items to create
light sources cheaply something like a
knife or a fork you can also put it on a
chest and if you can throw that then
that's actually going to be quite a
large light source as well this can be
particularly helpful in dark places like
the under dark cave anywhere where you
know you might need the extra light to
assist a ranged character that might not
have dark vision right that allows them
to see in the dark to help those ranged
attacks connect with their targets so a
hidden use there that you can really
help out your ranged characters coming
at number three we have find familiar
cats can jump through bars and go
through some small places so you can get
your familiar to reach places that you
might not be able to otherwise also if
you're a druid you can shape shift into
a cat and then turn back into a human
once you're past that obstacle and you
can also then take advantage of going
through bars as a druid not only that
but if you summon a spider familiar in
particular you can actually use this to
scare goblins and trolls which are both
terrified of them so it could serve as
an opportunity to distract your enemy or
to get an edge on them the cat familiar
is great for distracting enemies to get
them out of position you can meow and
then they all kind of gather them up
similar to minor illusion if you want to
get ready for an AOE what's also great
about familiars is that they persist
through a long rest so if you summon
them before a long rest you'll get your
spell slot back and then after you do
your rest you're going to be keeping
your familiar so nice little trick there
as well all right coming at number four
we have send to Camp you can actually
send chests to Camp after looting them
even if they're lockpick and then you
can crack that later if you can't figure
it out now maybe your skill is too low
so you want to save it till you're
better at it or maybe at Camp you have
your slight of hand gloves and so you
equip those and then open the chest at
Camp so if you're in a tight situation
you of time to crack open a chest right
now you can just send it straight to
camp and deal with that later you can
also do the same thing with with camp
supplies so you know those can really
clutter up your inventory you know maybe
there's like a bunch of chickens and
food eggs whatever you can just send
that straight to Camp so that you have
more room in your inventory you're able
to carry more stuff and that actually
goes straight to your traveler's chest
now as a bonus if you put a camp
supplies backpack inside of your
traveler's chest the supplies you send
to Camp will actually automatically go
into that bag which actually saves you a
ton of room both in your character's
bags by sending it to Camp but also
really helps keep your traveler's chest
from getting cluttered as everything's
just going to go straight into that camp
supplies backpack I found that tip to be
very helpful to really just keep myself
organized as I'm going throughout the
world all right tip number five we have
Mage hand this spell should have been in
my top underrated spells list video but
since I didn't add it there it's going
into this list now Mage hand has a ton
of amazing uses you can cast it before a
fight drop some bombs next to it and
then when the fight starts you can just
throw and and throw rain down explosives
on your enemies each turn or you can
summon a mage hand next to a ranged
attacker that might be standing on a
cliff and then shove him off to his
death or at least get rid of that High
Ground Advantage he has so Mage hand
actually has a ton of uses you can do so
much with it it just absolutely High
highly recommend I didn't actually know
how good Mage hand was until I realized
all these amazing things coming out at
number six we have silence now this is
another underrated spell this spell is
most commonly used to stop en enemy
spellcasting however it can also be used
to mute any sounds in the environment
that might wake up or alert nearby
enemies for example using silence on an
area you're about to cause an explosion
on or perhaps attack or make noise in
any way right and it will not wake up
any sleeping enemies because it didn't
make any sound not only that but
everything within the silence radius is
also immune to thunder damage so there's
actually a lot of extra cool uses for
silence outside of just stopping enemy
spellcasting that could come in handy
during your adventures all right number
seven we have healing potion now most
players are using healing potions for
sure maybe they're just using them right
but actually if you throw them it can
heal in an area of effect now this can
be extremely useful if your party is
grouped up you can essentially multiply
the value of your healing potion by
throwing it between them make sure not
to throw it directly at a teammate
though cuz that's going to actually
cause damage to them instead also if
you're a life cleric and you throw them
you're going to Grant bonus healing on
the potion so you'll be able to get a
massive AOE heal off on your party if
you use this tactic which is basically
the same as using a short rest in terms
of healing for your whole group so it's
really really strong and you really
squeeze the value out of those healing
potions and what's amazing about this is
you can actually do the same thing with
other potions such as potion of speed
but I've noticed that it doesn't work
for every single potion so be careful
make sure to quick save before you throw
your potion on the ground just in case
you're not sure if a certain potion I is
going to work knowing this can be very
helpful to buff up your team right
before a difficult fight to increase
your chances of coming out ahead all
right number eight we have crate if you
stack three crates on top of each other
you can actually give your character The
High Ground Advantage you're basically a
crate mancer what you do is you carry
around three crates at all times and
then you kind of set up before the fight
you know stack your crates up you know
might take a few seconds of preparation
to stack your crates but once you're set
up you've given yourself a nice
Advantage it basically serves as a way
to protect that same character from
ranged attacks by giving the enemy that
low ground uh disadvantage and then you
have The High Ground Anakin so you're
going to have a much better chance of
coming out ahead especially if you're a
ranged fighter once you get your crates
set up all right number nine we have dip
you can dip your weapon into different
surfaces to enhance your item sure you
know that one puddles of acid puddles of
fire can give your weapon those
properties when dipped but you can also
dip from characters that already have
that ailment for example if carlac is on
fire you can just dip your weapons into
her and she's going to give you that
fire on your weapon can also dip on
enemies who are on fire uh not only
allies and even your own character you
can actually dip fire off of yourself uh
to get fire onto your weapon so a lot of
different uses for dip you might not
think well you know oh man you know I
didn't know I could use dip on myself
while I'm on fire but you actually can
and then coming at number 10 very
similar we have candle if you carry a
candle around with you will you will
actually always have a source of fire
today dip into you can just drop the
candle on the ground light it and then
you can dip your weapon into it you can
also use a torch for the same effect as
well but uh I like carrying a candle I
think that's hilarious that it's
basically a constant source of fire for
you whenever you want to dip into it
number 11 is shove shove is probably one
of the most OP things on this list for
example if an ally has been put to sleep
you can use shove to wake them up which
is really strong because shove is a
bonus attack and help is an action so
using shove allows you to save yourself
one action shove can also be used to
break opponent's concentration which can
be very helpful against control spells
like Tasha's hideous laughter and of
course if you shove an enemy off of a
massive cliff into a Chasm this can
instantly kill them now you might not
get the loot from them but it can be
used to perhaps save your life or win a
fight you might not otherwise should
have won and you can even use this on
some bosses which makes shove very
overpowered in my book all right number
12 we have iron hinge you can shoot the
chain called iron hinge which is holding
up a hanging fire pit SL chandelier kind
of old school which when it falls will
actually cause an explosion dealing
damage and will leave a fire surface if
you toggle your view hitting o you can
actually see exactly where it's going to
fall so you can line it up perfectly
with an enemy to kind of get this bonus
damage on your enemy and I think that's
kind of a cool thing to pull off right
something you'd see in the movies shoot
an arrow at the chandelier it falls your
enemies I think it's kind of a cool
thing to pull off and then finally at
number 13 we have featherfall this
ritual spell causes you and nearby
allies to become immune to Falling
damage this is actually very useful
against being shoved off of high places
like we talked about you know where
you'd either instantly die or perhaps
take a massive amount of falling damage
you can actually save yourself from
taking any damage actually by becoming
immune to Falling damage you can use
this before combat and um and and even
outside of combat you can use this when
you're trying to Traverse difficult
terrain perhaps you want to make a jump
down that would otherwise kill you since
featherfall you're immune to Falling
damage you can make some crazy jumps and
get around much easier so so next time
you find a scroll of feather fall you
might find it more useful than you think
allowing your whole party to become
immune to Falling damage and that's my
list of 13 things that are actually
overpowered in Boulders Gate 3 let me
know did I forget anything that you
think's overpowered let me know in the
comments below thanks for watching and
I'll see you in the next video take care